# Members

- Version: 1.2 beta
- Author: Symphony Team
- Build Date: 12th February 2010
- Requirements: Symphony 2.0.7 or higher

Frontend Membership extension for Symphony CMS.

## Dependencies

- [Advanced Symphony Database Connector](http://symphony-cms.com/download/extensions/view/20038/)
- [SMTP Email Library](http://symphony-cms.com/download/extensions/view/37898/)

## Installation and Setup

1. Place the 'members' folder in your Symphony 'extensions' directory.
2. Go to System > Extensions, select "Members", choose "Enable" from the with-selected menu, then click Apply.
3. Go to Members > Setup...
	- Either use the "Smart Setup" tool to autogenerate a compatible members section, or use the "Essentials" section to point to an existing section containing the required fields.
	- _optional_ In the "Registration" section, specify whether to require activation for newly registered members.
4. Go to System > Preferences and provide the SMTP Email Library with email credentials. This is necessary for activation emails and password resets.

## Usage

### Roles and Permissions

Members are organized according to roles, each of which can have discrete permissions for accessing front-end pages and events. By default, the extension creates two roles: "Guest" and "Inactive". 

- To add or edit roles, go to Members > Roles.
- To specify the default role for new members, go to Members > Setup

### Email Templates

Email templates are used to generate system emails that are sent to members on the following occasions: registration, password change, password reset request, and account activation. Email templates can be role specific.

- To add or edit email templates, go to Members > Email Templates

When creating email templates, certain dynamic values can be inserted using the attribute value template syntax: `{$value}`. The following values are available:

##### Global Values

- `$root`: Your site's root URL
- `$site-name`: Your site's name
- `$[member-field-handle]::username`: Member's username. _Replace `[member-field-handle]` with the handle of your members section's Username and Password field._
- `$[field-name]`: Any other field in your members section. _Replace `[field-name]` with the field's actual handle._
- `$[field-name]::handle`: Handle-ized version of any field name in your members section. _Replace `[field-name]` with the field's actual handle._

##### Email-Specific Values

- `$code`: Member's activation code. Available in an **Account Activation** email and a **Reset Password** email.
- `$[member-field-handle]::plaintext-password`: Member's password in plain text. Available in an **Account Activation** email and a **Welcome Email**. _Replace `[member-field-handle]` with the handle of your members section's Username and Password field._
- `$new-password`: New password, generated by the system when a member's password has been successfully reset. Avilable in a **New Password** email. 

### Fields

The extension provides three additional fields:

- Member: Username and Password
- Member: Role (select box of available roles)
- Member Link (used to link entries in another section to a Member entry)

### Events

The extension provides five events:

- Members: Activate Account
- Members: Change Password
- Members: Register
- Members: Resend Activation Email
- Members: Reset Password

Go to Blueprints > Components and click on the event name to view documentation for that event.
